A content management system (CMS) is computer software used to manage the creation and modification of digital content (content management).[1][2][3] It is typically used for enterprise content management (ECM) and web content management (WCM). ECM typically supports multiple users in a collaborative environment,[4][5] by integrating document management, digital asset management, and record retention.[4] Alternatively, WCM is the collaborative authoring for websites and may include text and embed graphics, photos, video, audio, maps, and program code that display content and interact with the user.[6][7] ECM typically includes a WCM function.
Structure

A CMS typically has two major components: a content management application (CMA), as the front-end user interface that allows a user, even with limited expertise, to add, modify, and remove content from a website without the intervention of a webmaster; and a content delivery application (CDA), that compiles the content and updates the website.[8]
Installation type

There are two types of CMS installation: on-premises and cloud-based. On-premises installation means that the CMS software can be installed on the server. Notable CMSs which can be installed on-premises are Drupal, Grav, Joomla, ModX, Wordpress.org and others. The cloud-based CMS is hosted on the vendor environment. Examples of notable cloud-based CMSs are Adobe Experience Manager, Contentful, Ghost, Optimizely, SquareSpace, Webflow, WIX, Framer, Site.pro and Wordpress.com.[9]
Common features

The core CMS features are: indexing, search and retrieval, format management, revision control, and management.[4] Features may vary depending on the system application but will typically include:[4]

    Intuitive indexing, search, and retrieval features index all data for easy access through search functions and allow users to search by attributes such as publication dates, keywords or author.
    Format management facilitates turning scanned paper documents and legacy electronic documents into HTML or PDF documents.
    Revision features allow content to be updated and edited after initial publication. Revision control also tracks any changes made to files by individuals.
    Publishing functionality allows individuals to use a template or a set of templates approved by the organization, as well as wizards and other tools to create or modify content.

Popular additional features may include:[4]

    SEO-friendly URLs
    Integrated and online help, including discussion boards
    Group-based permission systems
    Full template support and customizable templates
    Easy wizard-based install and versioning procedures
    Admin panel with multiple language support
    Content hierarchy with unlimited depth and size
    Minimal server requirements
    Integrated file managers
    Integrated audit logs
    Support AMP page for Google
    Support schema markup
    Designed as per Google quality guidelines for website architecture
    Availability of plug-ins for additional functionalities.
    Security precautions such as 2 Factor Authentication
